= salesforce-bulk

==Overview

Salesforce Bulk Oauth2 is an extension of jorgevaldivia's Salesforce Bulk ruby gem for connecting to and using the Salesforce Bulk API (http://www.salesforce.com/us/developer/docs/api_asynch/index.htm) via Oauth2 service instead of username/password.
 
==Installation

   gem install salesforce_bulk_oauth2

==How to use

Using this gem is simple and straight forward.

To initialize:

  require 'salesforce_bulk_oauth2'
  salesforce = SalesforceBulk::Api.new(:token=>"YOUR_SALESFORCE_TOKEN", :instance_url=>"YOUR_SALESFORCE_INSTANCE_URL")

Sample operations:

Same as mentioned on (https://github.com/jorgevaldivia/salesforce_bulk).

  # Insert/Create
  new_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account", "type" => "Other"] # Add as many fields per record as needed.
  records_to_insert = Array.new
  records_to_insert.push(new_account) # You can add as many records as you want here, just keep in mind that Salesforce has governor limits.
  result = salesforce.create("Account", records_to_insert)
  puts "result is: #{result.inspect}"

  # Update
  updated_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account -- Updated", "id" => "a00A0001009zA2m"] # Nearly identical to an insert, but we need to pass the salesforce id.
  records_to_update = Array.new
  records_to_update.push(updated_account)
  salesforce.update("Account", records_to_update)

  # Upsert
  upserted_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account -- Upserted", "External_Field_Name" => "123456"] # Fields to be updated. External field must be included
  records_to_upsert = Array.new
  records_to_upsert.push(upserted_account)
  salesforce.upsert("Account", records_to_upsert, "External_Field_Name") # Note that upsert accepts an extra parameter for the external field name
  
  OR
  
  salesforce.upsert("Account", records_to_upsert, "External_Field_Name", true) # last parameter indicates whether to wait until the batch finishes

  # Delete
  deleted_account = Hash["id" => "a00A0001009zA2m"] # We only specify the id of the records to delete
  records_to_delete = Array.new
  records_to_delete.push(deleted_account)
  salesforce.delete("Account", records_to_delete)

  # Query
  res = salesforce.query("Account", "select id, name, createddate from Account limit 3") # We just need to pass the sobject name and the query string
  puts res.result.records.inspect

Result reporting:

array of true/false depending on wether record was pushed

example: if you push an array having 10 records. Result maybe
  result = [true,true,true,true,false,true,false,true,true,true]

  
Thanks to jorgevaldivia for Salesforce Bulk gem

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Bhushan Lodha.

===end

